# Archibald Campbell Tait (1811–1882)

In March 1848, Archibald Campbell Tait, the headmaster of Rugby School visited Broadstairs on the advice of his doctor. He was seriously ill after a challenging time, saying: “I must return to my work or soon I shall think there is nothing in the world so interesting as the beating of my own heart.” Dr Hodson, who predicated a “rapid decline” suggested the soft air of Beaumaris, however Dr Babington, who had treated Tait before, recommended the bracing air of Broadstairs. Tait took Babington’s advice. He wrote: “The remaining weeks of the holidays were spent there with the two little ones, in a small but not very comfortable lodging.  But what were inconveniences in comparison with the glad feeling of returning health”.

.ve-image wc:James_Sant_(1820-1916)_-_Archibald_Campbell_Tait_-_NPG_4580_-_National_Portrait_Gallery.jpg full

Almost twenty years later, and now Bishop of London, Tait attended the Pan-Anglican Conference at Lambeth but “these exertions so knocked him up that he was obliged to take another month of entire rest, which he spent in a villa near Broadstairs”. It was after this visit, restored by the bracing air of Broadstairs, that he decided to purchase a marine residence – He bought Stonehouse at St Peters, a mile from Broadstairs and fifteen miles by rail from the city Canterbury. 
.ve-map 51.3691187304201,1.4437947665875308

Tait was staying at Stonehouse in October 1868, when he received the news of the death of Archbishop of Canterbury, Charles Longley, and shortly after a message from Queen Victoria offering him the archbishopric. His sister, Lady Wake recalls: “A week passed without another word to Stonehouse ; then one morning the sound of wheels was heard, and in another moment Mr Fisher, the Bishop's chaplain, appeared, bringing a letter from the Prime Minister containing the expected appointment.”

.ve-image wc:AbpCharlesThomasLongley.jpg full

What followed was an exhausting round or engagements:

.  .  .  Confirmation  at  Smeeth.  Visited  the  new  schools.  Got on  to  Tonbridge  Wells,  in  a  snowy  night,  in  time  for  a  large dinner-party  of  clergy  at  Mr.  Hoare's.  Great  Confirmation  on nth  at  Tonbridge  Wells,  and  a  second  equally  large  at  Tonbridge. Drove  to  Tonbridge  after  a  huge  luncheon  party,  and  in  the  dark drove  fifteen  miles  from  Tonbridge  to  Mr.  Talbot's  at  Falcon- hurst,  where  most  kindly  received.  Met  many  |>eople  at  dinner. Confirmed  next  day  at  Pcnshurst.  Great  luncheon  of  clergy  and others.  .  .  .  Returned  in  dark.     Another  dinner-party.  .  .  .  On  Saturday  13th  confirmed  at  Edenbridge.  Great  luncheon  of  many, clergy  and  others.  Confirmed  in  afternoon  at  Westerham. Drove  to  Colonel  Ward's  lovely  place,  Squerries.  After  tea started  for  a  drive  in  the  dark  over  the  hills.  Got  to  Addington at  9.15.  Very  thankful  to  have  got  through  a  heavy  week  so well,  notwithstanding  the  perpetual  singing  in  my  ears."

.ve-image wc:Squerryes_Court,_Westerham,_Kent_-_geograph.org.uk_-_37782.jpg full


Tait’s health remained fragile and he was prone to bouts of exhaustion.  Lady Wake wrote: “The interest of his new duties as Archbishop carried him on far beyond his strength. He always considered he had done enough to recruit his health by spending a few bright weeks with his friends in Scotland, finishing the autumn at Stonehouse.” He usually stayed for around 6-8 weeks. 

Tait wrote,  "the  change  to  Canterbury  had  certainly brought  no  relaxation  of  work.  The  Confirmations  were  pressing. All  seemed  to  go  on  prosperously,  and  my  strength  to  be  equal to  my  duties.  But  the  bow,  it  would  seem,  had  been  overstrung. .  .  .  

On Monday 15 November  "I  had  been  to  a  diocesan meeting  at  Ashford,  and  in  the  evening  spoke  for  one  of  the Missionary  Societies.  Next  morning  I  had  to  hurry  to  London for  the  Ecclesiastical  Commission,  and  I  think  for  a  meeting  of the  Charterhouse,  then  down  to  the  Isle  of  Thanet  by  the  evening train.  Next  day  was  spent  quietly  at  home,  but correspondence  was  accumulating,  and  I  believe  ninety  letters had  to  be  superintended  and  despatched  by  that  post  I  was  very tired  in  the  evening,  but  next  morning, I  rose fresh  as  usual.  I  remember  going  into  my  wife's  room  and  finding  her  reading  the  Bible  with  the  children.  I  warned  them  not to  work  their  mother  too  hard.  I  remember  also  looking  out  of the  window  on  the  bright  frosty  morning,  and  anticipating  a  day of  comparative  rest  I  returned  to  my  dressing-room,  but  I  had not  finished  dressing  when  I  fell  prostrate  and  senseless  on  the floor."